--- 
layout : post
title : NFS
image: /assets/img/2020-12-16 11_45_35-technology-14-512.webp (Image WEBP, 512 × 512 pixels).png
author: Edwards
date: 2021-02-01
categories: [Ressources, Tech]
math: true
--- 

## What is NFS ?

NFS stands for "Network File System" and allows a system to share directories and files with others over a network. By using NFS, users and programs can access files on remote systems almost as if they were local files. It does this by mounting all, or a portion of a file system on a server. The portion of the file system that is mounted can be accessed by clients with whatever privileges are assigned to each file.

### Mounting NFS shares 

Your client’s system needs a directory where all the content shared by
the host server in the export folder can be accessed. You can create
this folder anywhere on your system. Once you've created this mount point, you can use the "mount" command to connect the NFS share to the mount point on your machine. Like so:

sudo mount -t nfs IP:share /tmp/mount/ -nolock

- mount -> mount command 
- t nfs Type of device to mount 
- IP:share Address of the NFS server and the name of the share

### Create mount file 
```bash
mkdir /tmp/mount
```

### List NFS shares 
```bash
/usr/sbin/showmount -e [IP]
```

### Mounting 
```bash
sudo mount -t nfs IP:share /tmp/mount/ -nolock
```

## Exploiting NSF

### root_squash

By default, on NFS shares- Root Squashing is enabled, and prevents anyone connecting to the NFS share from having root access to the NFS volume. Remote root users are assigned a user “nfsnobody” when connected, which has the least local privileges. Not what we want. However, if this is turned off, it can allow the creation of SUID bit files, allowing a remote user root access to the connected system. 

### Pathway 

   NFS Access ->

        Gain Low Privilege Shell ->

            Upload Bash Executable to the NFS share ->

                Set SUID Permissions Through NFS Due To Misconfigured Root Squash ->

                    Login through SSH ->

                        Execute SUID Bit Bash Executable ->

                            ROOT ACCESS

[!file](https://github.com/polo-sec/writing/blob/master/Security%20Challenge%20Walkthroughs/Networks%202/bash)

### File authorization
```bash
sudo chown root bash
sudo chmod +sx bash
```

### In the remote machine
```bash
./bash -p
```