--- 
layout : post
title : OWASP
image: /assets/img/2020-12-16 11_45_35-technology-14-512.webp (Image WEBP, 512 × 512 pixels).png
author: Edwards
date: 2021-02-01
categories: [Ressources, Tech]
math: true
--- 

#### OWASP TOP 10

The OWASP Top 10 is a standard awareness document for developers and web application security. It represents a broad consensus about the most critical security risks to web applications.

### Severity 1 Injection 

Injection flaws are very common in applications today. These flaws occur because user controlled input is interpreted as actual commands or parameters by the application. Injection attacks depend on what technologies are being used and how exactly the input is interpreted by these technologies. Some common examples include:

    SQL Injection: This occurs when user controlled input is passed to SQL queries. As a result, an attacker can pass in SQL queries to manipulate the outcome of such queries. 
    Command Injection: This occurs when user input is passed to system commands. As a result, an attacker is able to execute arbitrary system commands on application servers.


## Command Injection 

Command Injection occurs when server-side code (like PHP) in a web application makes a system call on the hosting machine.  It is a web vulnerability that allows an attacker to take advantage of that made system call to execute operating system commands on the server.

## Commands to try 

# Linux 

- whoami
- id
- ifconfig/ip addr
- uname -a
- ps -ef

# Windows 

- whoami
- ver
- ipconfig
- tasklist
- netstat -an

### Severity 2 Broken Authentication 

Authentication and session management constitute core components of modern web applications. Authentication allows users to gain access to web applications by verifying their identities. The most common form of authentication is using a username and password mechanism. A user would enter these credentials, the server would verify them. If they are correct, the server would then provide the users’ browser with a session cookie. A session cookie is needed because web servers use HTTP(S) to communicate which is stateless. Attaching session cookies means that the server will know who is sending what data. The server can then keep track of users' actions. 

## Logic flaw within the authentication mechanism.

Try to find a already created username, create a new one with a space.
- user "admin" -> create " admin". 

### Severity 3 Sensitive Data Exposure  

When a webapp accidentally divulges sensitive data, we refer to it as "Sensitive Data Exposure". This is often data directly linked to customers (e.g. names, dates-of-birth, financial information, etc), but could also be more technical information, such as usernames and passwords. At more complex levels this often involves techniques such as a "Man in The Middle Attack", whereby the attacker would force user connections through a device which they control, then take advantage of weak encryption on any transmitted data to gain access to the intercepted information (if the data is even encrypted in the first place...). Of course, many examples are much simpler, and vulnerabilities can be found in web apps which can be exploited without any advanced networking knowledge.

### Severity 4 XML External Entity

An XML External Entity (XXE) attack is a vulnerability that abuses features of XML parsers/data. It often allows an attacker to interact with any backend or external systems that the application itself can access and can allow the attacker to read the file on that system. They can also cause Denial of Service (DoS) attack or could use XXE to perform Server-Side Request Forgery (SSRF) inducing the web application to make requests to other applications. XXE may even enable port scanning and lead to remote code execution.

## Two types of XXE attacks 

- 1) An in-band XXE attack is the one in which the attacker can receive an immediate response to the XXE payload.

- 2) out-of-band XXE attacks (also called blind XXE), there is no immediate response from the web application and attacker has to reflect the output of their XXE payload to some other file or their own server.

## What is XML ? 

XML (eXtensible Markup Language) is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents in a format that is both human-readable and machine-readable. It is a markup language used for storing and transporting data.

## XML DTD 

DTD stands for Document Type Definition. A DTD defines the structure and the legal elements and attributes of an XML document.

## XML - XXE Payload